# 2주차
## MongoDB CRUD Operations: Insert and Find Documents
### Lesson 1. Inserting Documents in a MongoDB Collection
- insertOne()
    - db.<collection>.insertOne()
    - db.grades.insertOne()
        - grades collection이 없으면 자동으로 만들어줌
    
    ```jsx
    	db.grades.insertOne(  {
    		student_id: 546799,
    			scores: [
    				{
    					type: "quiz",
    					score: 50,
    				},
    				{
    					type: "homework",
    					score: 70,
    				}				
    			]
    	}  )
    
    {
    	acknowledged: true,
    	insertedId: ObjectId("62f138664985719fd9fb98f6")
    }
    ```
    
- insertMany()
    - db.<collection>.insertMany([
        
        <document 1>,
        
        <document 2>,
        
        <document 3>,
        
        ])
        
    
    ```jsx
    db.grades.insertMany([
      {
        student_id: 546789,
        products: [
          {
            type: "quiz",
            score: 50,
          },
          {
            type: "homework",
            score: 70,
          },
          {
            type: "quiz",
            score: 66,
          },
          {
            type: "exam",
            score: 70,
          },
        ],
        class_id: 551,
      },
      {
        student_id: 777777,
        products: [
          {
            type: "exam",
            score: 83,
          },
          {
            type: "quiz",
            score: 59,
          },
          {
            type: "quiz",
            score: 72,
          },
          {
            type: "quiz",
            score: 67,
          },
        ],
        class_id: 550,
      },
      {
        student_id: 223344,
        products: [
          {
            type: "exam",
            score: 45,
          },
          {
            type: "homework",
            score: 39,
          },
          {
            type: "quiz",
            score: 40,
          },
          {
            type: "homework",
            score: 88,
          },
        ],
        class_id: 551,
      },
    ])
    ```
    

---

#### Quiz

1. **What methods are available in MongoDB for inserting a single document? (Select one.)**
- **A.** .insertOne()
    
    Correct! The `insertOne()` method is a valid method that's included in the MongoDB Shell to insert a single document.
    
- **B.** .inserting()
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid method included in the MongoDB Shell. What method can you use to insert a single document?
    
- **C.** .InsertDocument()
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid method included in the MongoDB Shell. What method can you use to insert a single document?
    
- **D.** .insertMany()
    
    Incorrect. The `insertMany()` method is used to insert multiple documents. What method can you use to insert a single document?
    
2. Select an answer choice and then click "See Results" to submit.

**What methods are available in MongoDB for inserting multiple documents? (Select one.)**

- **A.** .InsertDocument()
    
    Incorrect. The `InsertDocument()` method is not a valid MongoDB method to insert documents. What method can you use to insert a document?
    
- **B.** .inserting()
    
    Incorrect. `inserting()` is not a valid method included in the MongoDB Shell. What method can you use to insert a document?
    
- **C.** .insertOne()
    
    Incorrect. The `insertOne()` method is a valid method included in the MongoDB Shell, but it's used to insert a single document. What method can you use to insert multiple documents?
    
- **D.** .insertMany()
    
    Correct! The `insertMany()` method is a valid method that's included in the MongoDB Shell to insert multiple documents.
### Lesson 2. Finding Documents in a MongoDB Collection
- find()
    - db.<collection>.find()
    
    ```bash
    use training
    
    db.zips.find()
    
    it
    ```
    
  - 특정 문서 검색
    - $eq:
    
    ```bash
    { field: { $eq: <value> }  }
    db.zips.find({ _id: ObjectId("5c8eccc1caa187d17ca6ed16") })
    db.zips.find({ state: "AZ" })
    ```
    
    - $in
        - allows to select all documents that have a field value equal to any of the values specified in the array

    ```bash
    db.<collection>.find({
    	<field>: { $in:
    		[<value>, <value>, ...]
    })
    
    db.zips.find({ city: { $in: ["PHOENIX", "CHICAGO"] } })
    ```

---

#### Quiz

1. Select an answer choice and then click "See Results" to submit.

**What methods are available in MongoDB for finding documents? (Select one.)**

- **A.** .find()
    
    Correct! The `find()` method is a valid method that's included in the MongoDB Shell to find documents.
    
- **B.** .query()
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid method included in the MongoDB Shell. What method can you use to find documents?
    
- **C.** .finding()
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid method included in the MongoDB Shell. What method can you use to find documents?
    
- **D.** .search()
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid method included in the MongoDB Shell. What method can you use to find documents?
    
2. Select an answer choice and then click "See Results" to submit.

**You are searching for data on a small area in downtown Chicago with the following zip codes:**

```
“60601”
“60602”
“60603”
“60604”
“60605”
“60606”
```

**Which of the following query documents should you use to ensure that only the documents with the specified zip codes are returned? (Select one.)**

- **A.** { zip: { $nin : [ "60601", "60602", "60603", "60604", "60605", "60606"] } }
    
    Incorrect. The `$nin` operator returns documents that do not contain the values specified in the array. Including this query would not return the specified Chicago zip codes.
    
- **B.** { zip: { $in : [ "60601", "60602", "60603", "60604", "60605", "60606"] } }
    
    Correct! The `$in` operator returns documents that contain the values specified in the array. This query will return the specified Chicago zip codes.
    
- **C.** { zip: { $eq : "60601", "60602", "60603", "60604", "60605", "60606" } }
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is inaccurate because the `$eq` operator matches documents that contain only one specified value.
    
- **D.** { zip: "60601", "60602", "60603", "60604", "60605", "60606" }
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is inaccurate because the implicit equality operator matches documents that contain only one specified value.
### Lesson 3. Finding Documents by Using Comparson Operators
#### 종류

- $gt (greater than)
- $lt (less than)
- $lte (less than or equal to)
- $gte (greater than or equal to)

#### 형식

- <field>: { <operator> : <value> }

#### 예시

```bash
db.sales.find({ "items.price": { $gt: 50 } })
```

---

#### Quiz

1. Select an answer choice and then click "See Results" to submit.

**Your company is conducting research on the customer experience and is focused on identifying unsatisfied customers. You need to find all customers with a satisfaction rating of 1 or 2.**

**Which of the following query documents would return all customers with a satisfaction rating of 1 or 2? (Select one.)**

- **A.** { "customer.satisfaction" : { $gt : 1}}
    
    Incorrect. This query would return all documents with a customer satisfaction rating greater than 1. To solve this problem, you need to select a query that returns all documents with a customer satisfaction rating less than or equal to 2.
    
- **B.** { customer.satisfaction : { $lte : 2}}
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is incorrect. Remember, to access subdocuments, you must use the syntax `“field.nestedfield”`, which includes quotation marks.
    
- **C.** { "customer.satisfaction" : { $lt : 2}}
    
    Incorrect. This query would return all documents with a customer satisfaction rating less than 2. To solve this problem, you need to select a query that returns all documents with a customer satisfaction rating less than or equal to 2.
    
- **D.** { "customer.satisfaction" : { $lte : 2}}
    
    Correct! This query will return all documents with a customer satisfaction rating of less than or equal to 2.
    
2. Select an answer choice and then click "See Results" to submit.

**Your company wants to offer a special discount for customers who are 65 or older. Your task is to find the records for these customers. Which of the following queries would return documents for all customers 65 or older? (Select all that apply.)**

- **A.** { customer.age : { $gte : 65 }}
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is incorrect. Remember, to access subdocuments, you must use the syntax `“field.nestedfield”`, which includes quotation marks.
    
- **B.** { "customer.age" : { $gt : 64 }}
    
    Correct! This query would return all documents where the customer age is greater than 64, which includes those 65 and older.
    
- **C.** { "customer.age" : { $gte : 65 }}
    
    Correct! This query would return all documents where the customer age is greater than or equal to 65.
    
- **D.** { "customer.age" : { $lte : 65 }}
    
    Incorrect. This query would return all documents where the customer age is less than or equal to 65. To solve this problem, you need to find all documents where the customer age is 65 or older.
### Lesson 4. Querying on Arrays Element in MongoDB
#### $elemMatch

```jsx
// format
{ <field>: { $elemMatch:
	{
		<query1>,
		<query2>,
		...
	}
}}

// Find Document with an Array that contains a specified value
db.accounts.find({ products: "InvestmentFund"})

db.account.find({
	products: {
		$elemMatch: { $eq: "InvestmentStock" } // $eq: 생략가능
	}
})

db.sales.find({
	items: {
		$elemMatch: { name: "laptop", price: { $gt: 800 }, quantity: { $gte: 1 } },
	},
})
```

---

#### Quiz

1. Select one answer choice and then click "See Results" to submit. (Select one.)

**Which of the following operators can be used to find a subdocument that matches specific criteria in an array?**

- **A.** &element
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid operator included in the MongoDB Shell. What operator can you use to find a subdocument that matches specific criteria in an array?
    
- **B.** $elemMatch
    
    Correct! The `$elemMatch` operator is a valid operator that's included in the MongoDB Shell to find a subdocument that matches specific criteria in an array.
    
- **C.** $subMatch
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid operator included in the MongoDB Shell. What operator can you use to find a subdocument that matches specific criteria in an array?
    
- **D.** $docMatch
    
    Incorrect. This is not a valid operator included in the MongoDB Shell. What operator can you use to find a subdocument that matches specific criteria in an array?
    
2. Select one or more answer choices and then click "See Results" to submit.

**What will the following query return? (Select one.)**

```jsx
db.books.find({ genre: "Historical" })
```

- **A.** All documents where the genre field is equal to either the scalar value of “Historical” or an array that contains “Historical”.
    
    Correct! This query will return all documents that contain “Historical” as a scalar value and as an array element within the genre field.
    
- **B.** All documents that contain the string “Historical” across any field.
    
    Incorrect. This query will not return all documents that contain the string “Historical” in any field. It will return all documents that contain “Historical” as a scalar value and as an array element within the genre field.
    
- **C.** All documents where the genre field does not contain the value “Historical”.
    
    Incorrect. This query will not filter out all documents that contain the string “Historical” in any field. It will return all documents that contain “Historical” as a scalar value and as an array element within the genre field.
### Lesson 5. Finding Documents by Using Logical Operators
- $and
    
    ```bash
    db.<collection>.find({
    	$and: [
    		{<expression>},
    		{<expression>},
    		...
    	]
    })
    
    db.collection.find( { <expression>, <expression> } )
    
    db.routes.find({
    	$and: [{ "airline": "Southwest Airlines" }, { "stops": { $gte: 1 } }],
    })
    
    db.routes.find({	"airline": "Southwest Airlines", "stops": { $gte: 1 } })
    ```
    
- $or
    
    ```bash
    db.<collection>.find({
    	$or: [
    		{<expression 1>},
    		{<expression 2>},
    		...
    	]
    })
    
    db.routes.find({	$or: [{ dst_airport: "SEA" }, { src_airport: "SEA" }] })
    ```
    
    ```json
    // Use the $and operator to use multiple $or expressions in your query.
    db.routes.find({
    	$and: [
    		{ $or: [
    			{ dst_airport: "SEA" },
    			{ src_airport: "SEA" }
    		}},
    		{ $or: [
    			{ airline: "American Airlines" },
    			{ airplane: 320 }
    		]},
    	]
    })
    ```
    

---

#### Quiz

1. Select one or more answer choices and then click "See Results" to submit.

**You want to know which mobile food trucks in your neighborhood, Astoria, are the best spots to eat. Using the `inspections` collection, you’re making a map of all mobile food trucks nearby that have passed inspection. What should you include in your query document to ensure that you find all the mobile food vendors in Astoria that passed inspection? (Select one.)**

- **A.** { "sector": "Mobile Food Vendor - 881" } ,{ "address.city": "ASTORIA"} , {"result": "Pass"}
    
    Incorrect. This answer option contains three separate query documents and is invalid. In order to use implicit AND specify the values within one query document.
    
- **B.** $and: {“Mobile Food Vendor - 881”, “ASTORIA”, “Pass}
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is invalid. When using the `$and` operator, you must include each expression within an array.
    
- **C.** { "sector": "Mobile Food Vendor - 881" , "address.city": "ASTORIA" , "result": "Pass"}
    
    Correct! This query document uses implicit AND, so it will return all mobile food vendors in Astoria that have passed inspection.
    
- **D.** &and: {“Mobile Food Vendor - 881”, “ASTORIA”, “Pass}
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is invalid. When using the `$and` operator, you must include each expression within an array.
    
2. Select one or more answer choices and then click "See Results" to submit.

**What will the following query return? (Select one.)**

```jsx
db.routes.find({
  $and: [
    { $or: [{ dst_airport: "IST" }, { src_airport: "IST" }] },
    { $or: [{ stops: 0 }, { airline.name: "Turkish Airlines"}] },
  ]
})

```

- **A.** All flights departing from or landing at the Istanbul airport (IST) that are nonstop or operated by Turkish Airlines.
    
    Correct! This query will return all flights that either depart from or land at the Istanbul airport that are nonstop or operated by Turkish Airlines.
    
- **B.** All flights that are either departing from the Istanbul airport (IST) or Turkish Airlines flights that are nonstop.
    
    Incorrect. To return all flights that are either departing from the Istanbul airport or nonstop Turkish Airlines flights, you would write the following query:
    
    ```jsx
    db.routes.find({
      $or: [{ src_airport: "IST" }, { airline.name: "Turkish Airlines", stops: 0 }],
    })
    
    ```
    
- **C.** All flights that are either landing at the Istanbul airport (IST) or operated by Turkish Airlines.
    
    Incorrect. To return only flights that are landing at the Istanbul airport or those operated by Turkish Airlines, you would write the following query:
    
    ```jsx
    db.routes.find({
      $or: [{ dst_airport: "IST" }, { airline.name: "Turkish Airlines" }],
    })
    
    ```
    
- **D.** All Turkish Airlines flights that are nonstop.
    
    Incorrect. To return all Turkish Airlines flights that are nonstop, you would write the following query:
    
    ```jsx
    db.routes.find({ "airline.name": "Turkish Airlines", stops: 0 })
    ```

### Summary

In this unit, you learned how to insert and find documents in a MongoDB collection. You built queries by using the following comparison operators:

- `$gt` (greater than)
- `$lt` (less than)
- `$lte` (less than or equal to)
- `$gte` (greater than or equal to)

You also used the following logical operators:

- `$and`
- `$or`

Finally, you learned how to query elements in an array and how to use the `$elemMatch` operator.

#### Resources

Use the following resources to learn more about inserting and finding documents in MongoDB:

##### Lesson 01: Inserting Documents in a MongoDB Collection

- [MongoDB Docs: insertOne()](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.insertOne/?_ga=2.261124036.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)
- [MongoDB Docs: insertMany()](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.insertMany/?_ga=2.86565841.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

##### Lesson 02: Finding Documents in a MongoDB Collection

- [MongoDB Docs: find()](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.find/?_ga=2.86565841.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)
- [MongoDB Docs: $in](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/query/in/?_ga=2.86565841.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

##### Lesson 03: Finding Documents by Using Comparison Operators

- [MongoDB Docs: Comparison Operators](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/query-comparison/?_ga=2.86565841.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

##### Lesson 04: Querying on Array Elements in MongoDB

- [MongoDB Docs: $elemMatch](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/query/elemMatch/?_ga=2.86565841.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)
- [MongoDB Docs: Querying Arrays](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/query-array-of-documents/?_ga=2.86565841.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886#combination-of-elements-satisfies-the-criteria)

##### Lesson 05: Finding Documents by Using Logical Operators

- [MongoDB Docs: Logical Operators](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/query-logical/?_ga=2.86565841.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

## MongoDB CRUD Operations: Replace and Delete Documents
### Lesson 1. Replacing a Document in MongoDB
- replaceOne()
    - db.collection.replaceOne(filter, replacement, options)
        - `filter`: A query that matches the document to replace.
        - `replacement`: The new document to replace the old one with.
        - `options`: An object that specifies options for the update.
        
        ```bash
        db.books.replaceOne(
          {
            _id: ObjectId("6282afeb441a74a98dbbec4e"),
          },
          {
            title: "Data Science Fundamentals for Python and MongoDB",
            isbn: "1484235967",
            publishedDate: new Date("2018-5-10"),
            thumbnailUrl:
              "https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71opmUBc2wL._AC_UY218_.jpg",
            authors: ["David Paper"],
            categories: ["Data Science"],
          }
        )
        ```
        

---

#### Quiz

1. **Which of the following statements regarding the `replaceOne()` method for the MongoDB Shell (`mongosh`) are true? (Select all that apply.)**
- **A.** This method is used to replace a single document that matches the filter document.
    
    Correct! The `replaceOne()` method is used to replace a single document that matches the filter document.
    
- **B.** This method accepts a filter document, a replacement document, and an optional options document.
    
    Correct! The `replaceOne()` method accepts a filter document, a replacement document, and an optional options document.
    
- **C.** This method can replace multiple documents in a collection.
    
    Incorrect. The `replaceOne()` method is used to replace a single document that matches the filter document. Which of the other statements describe `replaceOne()`?
    
- **D.** This method returns a document containing an acknowledgement of the operation, a matched count, modified count, and an upserted ID (if applicable).
    
    Correct! The `replaceOne()` method returns a document containing an acknowledgement of the operation, a matched count, modified count, and an upserted ID (if applicable).
    

2. **You want to replace the following document from the `birds` collection with a new document that contains additional information on recent sightings, the scientific name of each species, and wingspan. What field should you use in the filter document to ensure that this specific document is replaced? (Select one.)**

```jsx
{ _id: ObjectId("6286809e2f3fa87b7d86dccd") },
  {
    common_name: "Morning Dove",
    habitat: ["urban areas", "farms", "grassland"],
    diet: ["seeds"]
  }
```

- **A.** { _id: ObjectId("6286809e2f3fa87b7d86dccd") }
    
    Correct! Including the `_id` field as the filter document ensures that you’ll replace this specific document by using `replaceOne()`.
    
- **B.** { diet: ["seeds"] }
    
    Incorrect. `{ diet: ["seeds"] }` is not a unique field, so you cannot ensure that you will replace this specific document. If you use the `diet` field as the filter, MongoDB will replace the first document that contains `{ diet: ["seeds"] }`.
    
- **C.** { habitat: ["urban areas"] }
    
    Incorrect. `{ habitat: ["urban areas"] }` is not a unique field, so you cannot ensure that you will replace this specific document. If you use the `diet` field as the filter, MongoDB will replace the first document that contains `{ habitat: ["urban areas"] }`.
    
- **D.** { scientific_name: "Zenaida macroura" }
    
    Incorrect. The document that you want to replace does not contain `{ scientific_name: "Zenaida macroura" }`. Using `{ scientific_name: "Zenaida macroura" }` as the filter will replace another document.

### Lesson 2: Updating MongoDB Documents by Using updateOne()
```bash
db.collection.updateOne(
	<filter>,
	<update>,
	{options}
)

```

 

#### `$set`

- Adds new fields and values to a document.
- replaces the value of a field with the specified value.

```jsx
db.podcasts.updateOne(
  {
    _id: ObjectId("5e8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8"),
  },

  {
    $set: {
      subscribers: 98562,
    },
  }
)
```

#### `upsert`

- creates a new document if no documents match the filtered criteria.

```jsx
db.podcasts.updateOne(
  { title: "The Developer Hub" },
  { $set: { topics: ["databases", "MongoDB"] } },
  { upsert: true }
)
```

#### `$push`

- Appends a value to an array
- If absent, $push adds the array field with the value as its element

```jsx
// adds a new value to the hosts array field.
db.podcasts.updateOne(
  { _id: ObjectId("5e8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8f8") },
  { $push: { hosts: "Nic Raboy" } }
)
```

---

#### Quiz

1. **You want to add an element to the `items` array field in the sales collection. To do this, what should you include in the update document? (Select one.)**

A.

```jsx
 { $set: { items:[{ “name”: "tablet", “price”: 200}] } }
```

B.

```jsx
 { $update: { items:[{ “name”: "tablet", “price”: 200}] } }
```

C.

```jsx
 { $push: { items:[{ “name”: "tablet", “price”: 200}] } }
```

D.

```jsx
 { $upsert: { items:[{ “name”: "tablet", “price”: 200}] } }
```

- **A.** Option A
    
    Incorrect. The `$set` operator replaces the value of a field with the specified value. This code example would replace the value of the `items` field. It would not add an element to the existing array.
    
- **B.** Option B
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is invalid. `$update` is not a MongoDB operator.
    
- **C.** Option C
    
    Correct! The `$push` operator adds an element to an array field. In this example, you will add an array element for a tablet.
    
- **D.** Option D
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is invalid. The `upsert` option can add a document to a collection if it does not already exist. `upsert` cannot be used to update the value of a field.
    

2. **Air France has recently passed inspection. In the following document, you need to update the `results` field from Fail to Pass. To do this, what should you include in your update document? (Select one.)**

```jsx
{
  _id: ObjectId("56d61033a378eccde8a837f9"),
  id: '31041-2015-ENFO',
  certificate_number: 3045325,
  business_name: 'AIR FRANCE',
  date: 'Jun  9 2015',
  result: 'Fail',
  sector: 'Travel Agency - 440',
  address: {
    city: 'JAMAICA',
    zip: 11430,
    street: 'JFK INTL AIRPORT BLVD',
    number: 1
  }
}
```

A.

```jsx
 { $set: {result: ‘Pass’} }
```

B.

```jsx
 { $upsert: {result: ‘Pass’} }
```

C.

```jsx
 { $insert: {result: ‘Pass’} }
```

D.

```jsx
 { $push: {result: ‘Pass’} }
```

- **A.** Option A
    
    Correct! The `$set` operator replaces the value of a field with the specified value, so using this update document would update the `result` field to `'Pass'`.
    
- **B.** Option B
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is invalid. The `upsert` option can add a document to a collection if it does not already exist. `upsert` cannot be used as an update operator to update the value of a field.
    
- **C.** Option C
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is invalid. `$insert` is not a MongoDB update operator.
    
- **D.** Option D
    
    Incorrect. The `$push` operator adds an element to an array field. The `result` field is a string, not an array, so you cannot use the `$push` operator to update the value of `result`.

### Lesson 3. Updating MongoDB Documents by Using findAndModify()

- returns the document that has just been updated
- Another user could modify the document before findOne(), returning a dfferent version of the document.
    - To prevent this, we can use findAndModify()

The `findAndModify()` method is used to find and replace a single document in MongoDB. 

It accepts a filter document, a replacement document, and an optional options object. 

```jsx
db.podcasts.findAndModify({
  query: { _id: ObjectId("6261a92dfee1ff300dc80bf1") },
  update: { $inc: { subscribers: 1 } },
  new: true, // return the updated document
})
```

---

#### Quiz

1. **Using the zips collection, you write the following query. This query updates the population, which is stored in the pop field, in one zip code in Santa Fe, New Mexico. What will be returned? (Select one.)**

```jsx
db.zips.findAndModify({
  query: { _id: ObjectId("5c8eccc1caa187d17ca72ee7") },
  update: { $set: { pop: 40000 } },
  new: true,
})

```

- **A.** The updated document, which contains a population of 40000
    
    Correct! When the new option is set to true, `findAndModify()` returns the updated document. This query will return the updated document with a population of 40000.
    
- **B.** The original document, prior to the update, which contains a population of 34054
    
    Incorrect. When the new option is set to true, `findAndModify()` returns the updated document. This query will return the updated document with a population of 40000.
    
- **C.** All documents with a population of 40000
    
    Incorrect. `findAndModify()` will update and return a single document, not multiple documents.
    
- **D.** A new document that contains only an _id field and a population field
    
    Incorrect. `findAndModify()` will insert a new document only if the `upsert` option is set to true. This query does not include the upsert option.
    

2. **What would happen if you ran the following query on the zips collection? Note that there is currently no document for the city of Taos. (Select one.)**

```jsx
db.zips.findAndModify({
  query: { zip: 87571 },
  update: { $set: { city: "TAOS", state: "NM", pop: 40000 } },
  upsert: true,
  new: true,
})

```

- **A.** A new document would be inserted because the new option is set to true.
    
    Incorrect. When the `new` option is set to true, the updated version of a document is returned, regardless of whether that document is new or existing.
    
- **B.** A new document would be inserted because the upsert option is set to true.
    
    Correct! When the `upsert` option is set to true, a new document will be inserted if one does not already exist. For existing documents, the `upsert` option will cause the document to be updated.
    
- **C.** You would receive an error, because you cannot insert a new document when using the findAndModify() method.
    
    Incorrect. If you use `findAndModify()` to insert a new document without including the `upsert` option, you will receive an error or a null response,and the document will not be inserted. In this example, the document is inserted because the `upsert` option is set to true.

### Lesson 4. Updating MongoDB Documents by Using updateMany()
- To update multiple documents, use the `updateMany()` method.
- This method accepts a filter document, an update document, and an optional options object.
- Returns an output message showing the number of matched and modified documents

```jsx
db.books.updateMany(
  { publishedDate: { $lt: new Date("2019-01-01") } },
  { $set: { status: "LEGACY" } }
)
```

- Not an all-or-nothing operation
    - 업데이트가 중간에 멈출 수 있음
        - 중간에 멈추면 다시 업데이트 해야 될 수 있음
- Will not roll back updates
- Updates will be visible as soon as they’re performed
    - Not appropriate for some use cases
    - lacks isolation

---

#### Quiz

1. **Three computer science classes, with the class_ids of 377, 259, and 350, have earned 100 extra credit points by competing in a hackathon. You need to update the database so that all students who are in these classes receive extra credit points. Note that you will use the grades collection, which is in the `sample_training` database.**

**Which of the following queries will accomplish this goal? (Select one).**

A.

```jsx
db.grades.insertMany(
  {
    class_id: {
$in: [ 377, 259, 350 ]
    },
   },
  {
    $push: {
      scores: [
{ type : 'extra credit', score: 100 }
]
    }
  }
)

```

B.

```jsx
db.grades.updateMany(
  {
    class_id: {
$in: [ 377, 259, 350 ]
    },
   },
  {
    $push: {
      scores: [
{ type : 'extra credit', score: 100 }
]
    }
  }
)

```

C.

```jsx
db.grades.updateOne(
  {
    class_id: {
$in: [ 377, 259, 350 ]
    },
   },
  {
    $push: {
      scores: [
{ type : 'extra credit', score: 100 }
]
    }
  }
)

```

D.

```jsx
db.grades.findAndModify(
  {
    class_id: {
$in: [ 377, 259, 350]
    },
   },
  {
    $push: {
      scores: [
{ type : 'extra credit', score: 100 }
]
    }
  }
)

```

- **A.** Option A
    
    Incorrect. `db.collection.insertMany()` is used to insert multiple documents. It does not update existing documents.
    
- **B.** Option B
    
    Correct! Using `db.collection.updateMany()` enables you to update multiple documents at once.
    
- **C.** Option C
    
    Incorrect. `db.collection.updateOne()` updates only one document. To update the grades of all students in these classes, you need to use another collection method.
    
- **D.** Option D
    
    Incorrect. `db.collection.findAndModify()` requires a query field and an update field. Running this query will throw an error message.

### Lesson 5. Deleting Documents in MongoDB
- To delete documents, use the `deleteOne()` or `deleteMany()` methods.
- Both methods accept a filter document and an options object.

#### Delete One Document

```scss
db.podcasts.deleteOne({ _id: Objectid("6282c9862acb966e76bbf20a") })
```

#### Delete Many Documents

```scss
db.podcasts.deleteMany({category: “crime”})
```

---

#### Quiz

1. **United Airlines is the only airline that has a route from the Denver Airport (DEN) to the Northwest Arkansas Airport (XNA). It has decided to cancel this route due to low ridership.**
    
    **Which of the following queries will delete the route? (Select one.)Note that these documents are contained in the `routes` collection in the `sample_training` database.**
    

A.

```jsx
db.routes.deleteOne({ "airline.name": "United Airlines"})
```

B.

```jsx
db.routes.delete({ "airline.name": "United Airlines"})
```

C.

```jsx
db.routes.delete({ src_airport: "DEN", dst_airport: "XNA"})
```

D.

```jsx
db.routes.deleteOne({ src_airport: "DEN", dst_airport: "XNA"})
```

- **A.** Option A
    
    Incorrect. This query would delete the first document that has the airline name of United Airlines. Instead, you need to delete the document that departs from Denver, where the `src_airport` field is set to `“DEN”` and lands in the Northwest Arkansas airport, where the `dst_airport` field is set to `“XNA”`.
    
- **B.** Option B
    
    Incorrect. `db.collection.delete()` is not a valid collection method in MongoDB.
    
- **C.** Option C
    
    Incorrect. Although the airports are correct, `db.collection.delete()` is not a valid collection method in MongoDB.
    
- **D.** Option D
    
    Correct! The `db.collection.deleteOne()` method is used to delete a single document. The filter document contains the `src_airport` field with a value of `“DEN”` to specify a flight departing from Denver, and a `dst_airport` field with a value of `“XNA”` to specify a flight landing in the Northwest Arkansas Airport.
    

2. **Air Berlin has filed for bankruptcy and ceased operations. You need to update the routes collection to delete all documents that contain an airline name of Air Berlin. Which of the following queries should you use? (Select one.)**

A.

```jsx
db.routes.deleteOne({ "airline.name": "Air Berlin"})
```

B.

```sql
db.routes.delete("Air Berlin")
```

C.

```jsx
db.routes.deleteMany({ "airline.name": "Air Berlin"})
```

D.

```sql
db.routes.deleteMany("Air Berlin")
```

- **A.** Option A
    
    Incorrect. `db.collection.deleteOne()` deletes a single document. This query will delete one document for Air Berlin, not all documents containing Air Berlin.
    
- **B.** Option B
    
    Incorrect. `db.collection.delete()` is not a valid method in MongoDB.
    
- **C.** Option C
    
    Correct! This query will delete all documents that contain an airline name of Air Berlin.
    
- **D.** Option D
    
    Incorrect. This syntax is incorrect. You need to include a query document that contains a field and a specified value.

### Summary

In this unit, you learned how to modify query results with MongoDB. Specifically, you:

- Replaced a single document by using `db.collection.replaceOne()`.
- Updated a field value by using the `$set` update operator in `db.collection.updateOne()`.
- Added a value to an array by using the `$push` update operator in `db.collection.updateOne()`.
- Added a new field value to a document by using the `upsert` option in `db.collection.updateOne()`.
- Found and modified a document by using `db.collection.findAndModify()`.
- Updated multiple documents by using `db.collection.updateMany()`.
- Deleted a document by using `db.collection.deleteOne()`.

#### Resources

Use the following resources to learn more about modifying query results in MongoDB:

##### Lesson 01: Replacing a Document in MongoDB

- [MongoDB Docs: replaceOne()](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.collection.replaceOne/?_ga=2.56665699.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

##### Lesson 02: Updating MongoDB Documents by Using `updateOne()`

- [MongoDB Docs: Update Operators](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/update/?_ga=2.56665699.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)
- [MongoDB Docs: $set](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/update/set/?_ga=2.56665699.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)
- [MongoDB Docs: $push](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/update/push/?_ga=2.34644840.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)
- [MongoDB Docs: upsert](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/node/current/fundamentals/crud/write-operations/upsert/?_ga=2.123127490.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

##### Lesson 03: Updating MongoDB Documents by Using `findAndModify()`

- [MongoDB Docs: findAndModify()](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.collection.findAndModify/?_ga=2.123127490.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

##### Lesson 04: Updating MongoDB Documents by Using `findAndModify()`

- [MongoDB Docs: updateMany()](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.collection.updateMany/?_ga=2.123127490.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

##### Lesson 05: Deleting Documents in MongoDB

- [MongoDB Docs: deleteOne()](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/v5.3/reference/method/db.collection.deleteOne/)
- [MongoDB Docs: deleteMany()](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/v5.3/reference/method/db.collection.deleteMany/?_ga=2.23103219.810066485.1665291537-836515500.1666025886)

## MongoDB CRUD Operations: Modifying Query Results
### Lesson 01. Sorting and Limiting Query Results in MongoDB
#### Cursor

- Pointer to the result set of a query
- find() returns a cursor
- Cursor methods
    - Chained to queries
    - Perform actions on the result set

#### Sorting Results

- Use `cursor.sort()` to return query results in a specified order.
- Within the parentheses of `sort()`, include an object that specifies the field(s) to sort by and the order of the sort.
- Use 1 for ascending order, and -1 for descending order.
- Syntax:

```xml
db.collection.find(<query>).sort(<sort>)
```

- Example:

```scss
// Return data on all music companies, sorted alphabetically from A to Z.
db.companies.find({ category_code: "music" }).sort({ name: 1 });
```

- To ensure documents are returned in a consistent order, include a field that contains unique values in the sort.
- An easy way to do this is to include the `_id` field in the sort.

```scss
// Return data on all music companies, sorted alphabetically from A to Z. Ensure consistent sort order
db.companies.find({ category_code: "music" }).sort({ name: 1, _id: 1 });

// Projection
db.companies.find({ category_code: "music" }, { name: 1 }).sort({ name: 1});
```

#### Limiting Results

- Use `cursor.limit()` to specify the maximum number of documents the cursor will return.
- Within the parentheses of `limit()`, specify the maximum number of documents to return.
- Syntax:

```xml
db.companies.find(<query>).limit(<number>)
```

- Example:

```scss
// Return the three music companies with the highest number of employees. Ensure consistent sort order.
db.companies
  .find({ category_code: "music" })
  .sort({ number_of_employees: -1, _id: 1 })
  .limit(3);
  
// Projection
db.companies.find({category_code:"music"},{name:1,number_of_emplyees:1}).sort({number_of_employees:-1})
```

---

#### Quiz

1. Using the `inspections` collection within the `sample_training` database, you need to find all inspections that were passed. Your manager has requested that you organize this data by the certificate number in ascending order. Which query should you use? (Select one).

A.

```scss
db.inspections.find( { result : "Pass" }).sort( {certificate_number: 1});
```

B.

```scss
db.inspections.find( { result : "Pass" }).sort( {certificate_number: - 1});
```

C.

```scss
db.inspections.find( { result : "Pass" }, { sort: { certificate_number: 1 }})
```

D.

```scss
db.inspections.find( { result : "Pass" }, { sort: { certificate_number: - 1 }})
```

- **A.** Option A
    
    Correct! This query will return documents for businesses that passed inspection ordered by the certificate number in ascending order.
    
- **B.** Option B
    
    Incorrect. This query will return documents for businesses that passed inspection ordered by the certificate number in descending order. You need to sort by certificate number in ascending order.
    
- **C.** Option C
    
    Incorrect. `Sort` is a cursor method, so it must be appended to the end of the query. This query will not return documents that have passed inspection ordered by certificate number in ascending order.
    
- **D.** Option D
    
    Incorrect. `Sort` is a cursor method, so it must be appended to the end of the query. This query will not return documents that have passed inspection ordered by certificate number in ascending order.
    
2. You are considering creating a new membership tier for your bike sharing service for users who take long trips. Using the `trips` collection within the `sample-training` database, you need to find the trips, taken by subscribers, with the longest trip duration. Return the top 5 results in descending order. Which query should you use? (Select one.)

A.

```scss
db.trips.find( { usertype: "Subscriber"},( sort: { tripduration:   - 1 }), { limit :5 })
```

B.

```scss
db.trips.find( { usertype: "Subscriber"},( sort: { tripduration:   1 }), { limit :5 })
```

C.

```scss
db.trips.find( { usertype: "Subscriber"}).sort( { tripduration:   1 }).limit(5)
```

D.

```scss
db.trips.find( { usertype: "Subscriber"}).sort( { tripduration:  - 1 }).limit(5)
```

- **A.** Option A
    
    Incorrect. This query will return a syntax error. Remember to append `sort()` and `limit()` to the `find()` method.
    
- **B.** Option B
    
    Incorrect. This query will return a syntax error. Remember to append `sort()` and `limit()` to the `find()` method.
    
- **C.** Option C
    
    Incorrect. This query will return the 5 documents with the shortest trip duration, completed by subscribers, in ascending order. You need to return documents with the longest trip durations sorted in descending order.
    
- **D.** Option D
    
    Correct! This query will return the 5 documents with the longest trip durations, completed by subscribers, in descending order.

### Lesson 02. Returning Specific Data from a Query in MongoDB
